# Dif-Fusion （Pytorch）

### Dif-Fusion: Towards High Color Fidelity in Infrared and Visible Image Fusion with Diffusion Models
Color plays an important role in human visual perception, reflecting the spectrum of objects. However, the existing infrared and visible image fusion methods rarely explore how to handle multi-spectral/channel data directly and achieve high color fidelity. This paper addresses the above issue by proposing a novel method with diffusion models, termed as Dif-Fusion, to generate the distribution of the multi-channel input data, which increases the ability of multi-source information aggregation and the fidelity of colors. In specific, instead of converting multi-channel images into single-channel data in existing fusion methods, we create the multi-channel data distribution with a denoising network in a latent space with forward and reverse diffusion process. Then, we use the the denoising network to extract the multi-channel diffusion features with both visible and infrared information. Finally, we feed the multi-channel diffusion features to the multi-channel fusion module to directly generate the three-channel fused image. To retain the texture and intensity information, we propose multi-channel gradient loss and intensity loss. Along with the current evaluation metrics for measuring texture and intensity fidelity, we introduce a new evaluation metric to quantify color fidelity. Extensive experiments indicate that our method is more effective than other state-of-the-art image fusion methods, especially in color fidelity.
